# MOVIENOW DATASETS ANALYSIS

## INTRODUCTION
**MovieNow**  offers an online platform for streaming movies. Customers can rent a movie for 24 hours. For all movies, the company stores additional information such as the genre or the main actors. MovieNow also stores information about customers and movie ratings.

## OBJECTIVE
To extract valuable information from data to support operational decisions,provide information regarding customer growth and successes and also, to know the revenue generated by the company.

## DATASET
The database contains the following tables;
1. Customers
2. Movies
3. Renting
4. Actors
5. Actsin

 ### DESCRIPTION OF COLUMNS IN HE TABLES
 
#### **1. Customers Table** 
**Customer_id** - a number which is a unique identifier for each customer. \
**Name**- name of each customer. \
**Country** - the country the customer resides. \
**Gender** - the gender of the customer. \
**Date_of_birth** - the date of birth of the customer. \
**Date_account_start** - the date when the account for MovieNow was created.

#### **2.Movies Table**
**Movie_id** - a unique identifier for each movie. \
**Title** - the title of the movie. \
**Genre** - the movie genre. \
**Runtime** - the movie duration. \
**Year_of_release** - the movie release year. \
**Renting_price** - the cost to rent the movie.

#### **3.Renting Table**
The renting table records all movie rentals. \
**Renting_id** - is a unique identifier for each movie rental. \
**Customer_id** - tells which customer rented the movie. \
**Movie_id** - tells which movie the customer rented. \
**Rating** -  the rating a customer gives after watching the movie  which has values between 1 and 10, where 10 is the best rating. \
**Date_renting** - the rental date.

#### **4.Actors Table**
The actor table contains information about the actors in the movies. \
**Actor_id** - the unique identifier of the actor. \
**Name** - actor's name. \
**Year_of_birth** - actor's year of birth. \
**Nationality** -the country the actor comes from. \
**Gender** - the gender of the actor.

#### **5. Actsin Table**
The actsin table shows which actor appears in which movie. \
**Actsin_id** - the unique identifier of the actor's act. \
**Movie_id** - tells which movie the actor acted in. \
**Actor_id** - the unique identifier of the actor.

## METHODOLOGY
* The Entity Relationship Diagram  for the database tables was created by systematically identifying entities, defining relationships, determining attributes, and creating the ERD.
* Utilized rental transaction data to calculate income generated, employing aggregation and summing techniques on rental amounts.
* Analyzed rental records to determine the favorite movie rented and the most popular actor in a region, employing frequency analysis and data mining techniques to extract relevant information.

## DATA ANALYTICS TOOL
**Structured Query Language (SQL)**

## INSIGHTS
* The 122 customers of MovieNow reside in Austria, Belgium, Denmark, France, Great Britain, Hungary, Italy, Poland, Slovenia, Spain, and The United States of America.

* The top 5 highest spending customers are Avelaine Corbeil with customer_id 21, who patronized MovieNow 14 times and spent $31.56; \
Lucy Centeno Barrios with customer_id 113, who patronized MovieNow 15 times and spent $31.45; \
Havasy Kristof with customer_id 49, who patronized MovieNow 13 times and spent $30.37;  \
Canela Gaona Lozano with customer_id 114, who patronized MovieNow 11 times and spent $24.29; \
and Saúl Tafoya Meraz with customer_id 108, who patronized MovieNow 10 times and spent $24.00.

* If MovieNow were to reward its highest-paying customer, that would be Avelaine Corbeil with customer_id 21, who resides in France, patronized MovieNow 14 times, and spent $31.56.

* Drama is the most popular movie genre among customers.

* The movie 'Bridget Jones: The Edge of Reason' generated the highest income of $37.57, followed by 'Fair Game' with $34.68 and 'The Kingdom' with $31.35.

* Some of the movies with the perfect rating of 10 include 'Rio 2' (2014), 'Captain Phillips' (2013), 'White House Down' (2013), 'Ghost Rider: Spirit of Vengeance' (2012), and 'Cloud Atlas' (2012).

* The most popular actors in Spain are Fernando Tielve, Irene Escolar, and Javier Bardem.

## CONCLUSION
In this project, MovieNow's data was analyzed  to extract valuable insights that can inform operational decisions and drive business growth. By employing data collection, database design, and data analysis techniques, customer trends, popular movie genres, and regional preferences were identified. This information can be leveraged to improve customer experiences, tailor marketing strategies, and optimize revenue generation. Continuous data-driven efforts will be crucial for MovieNow to stay competitive and meet evolving customer needs in the future.